Silvia, I would like to
analyze the segmentation strategy
in your sector, in the luxury
sector and in particular in
the perfume sector.
If you tell us what have been the variables
with which they have always
been segmented, the traditional variables.
For now or until very recently we
have always been talking about,
especially when we were developing
a product, when we were developing
a advertising campaign, you
were always looking for a type
of consumer that was classified
according to whether it
was a man, woman, age, young,
35, 45, 55, 60.
It was a demographic issue.
Also if they were cosmopolitan people,
if they were based on their lifestyle
habits, if they traveled a lot, etc.
Well, there you were, in addition
to the demographic variables,
you were including some vitudinar
variable.
But that has been like a lot in
the last few years, but it has
always been what it was, what
age it is, where you live, if it
is a big city, if it is a small
city, etc.
I think you are also going to
be on the socio-economic profile.
Evidently, the upper class, which is the
upper middle class and the low middle
class, or the middle class, that is, that
really also the social issue was obviously
super important in our sector.
And I think the trend, in addition
to...
It was pure demographic, as you said, age,
gender and geography, where they live
and so on.
Then it was a little sophisticated
and included topics such
as attitude and cosmopolitan,
as you said, which are
more related to profiles.
But I think the trend now is to
go beyond and analyze and
determine profiles or people who
call you to some sites based
on how they use your product
or why they buy you.
We were segmenting a little,
as I said, at the demographic,
social, etc. level.
What happens is that we have realized
that that in the end does not serve
you for anything, because it is really
so extremely generalist that you
do not clearly identify who your
consumer is.
And that doesn't allow you to do good,
neither product development, nor
communication development, nor anything.
A woman 40 years old is not the
same woman 40 years old 20 years
ago and also does not behave best
as a woman 40 years old, at best
behaves at the level of
attitude, at the level of perfumes
to use or at the level of
style of truth, etc., as
a girl 20.
And, on the contrary, a girl of 20 can
be much more classic.
In the end, that was not
useful to you.
And then, on the other hand, as
I told you before, it is true
that the digital world and especially
the topic of social media,
development allows you to get to an
extreme personalization, that
is, really identify who your consumer is.
So, if you know exactly what your
consumer, Pepito Pérez, likes to
go to the mountain, likes to travel
every day of the week, likes
to buy gifts for his friends, loves
the whole world of games, etc.,
because obviously you will be able
to identify, taking into account
those tastes of him, you will
be able to develop products
and communication campaigns
and rework the whole topic of
the approach at the point of
sale in a way to, somehow,
touch him and really get to
what he is interested in.
And that segmentation you say, that
micro-segmentation, I, for
example, in sectors or in companies
that I see it, which is
absolutely taken to the
person, because Amazon, when I
enter Amazon, what is recommending
me is based on what I have
bought before.
In your case, I don't think it is,
that is, it seems to me more complicated
to be taken to the person.
You will have to identify a number
of people or a number of profiles,
because you can't adapt as
much as Amazon.
I will not be able to do this if I am
already in the digital world.
Man, because you, but the number
of products you have, for example,
are X, because you have a portfolio
of perfumes and how to get to
them, you can actually have
very personalized impacts
depending on when it is
the last time you bought,
if you know you have to
make a gift, etc.
You, through your point of sale
and through digital, can
know if that person, first when
is his birthday, if he is
a consumer of essence or is
a consumer alone, that is, you
really have very identified
that profile.
But we are already even
asking why we will not be able
to make specifically
customized perfumes, specific
to you, even based,, not only
on your tastes, if you like more
fresh or like more intense,
but also according to your pH,
depending on you what you eat,
because maybe a type of
perfume reacts better with
your skin type, depending
on your nutrition,
and can be ad hoc for
you.
Why can't we do that if it'
s already done?
If even the other day the law came
out, it seems to me it was
an article, it seems to me
it was Nestlé, which is working
on food based on the DNA of
each of the people.
Why not the perfume?
Exactly the same.
You can do this personal
adaptation.
We are in a world so brutal at the
level of specialization that why
will we not be able to get, what
I told you before, to know you what
is what you like, what your life
habits, what is what you eat,
what is what absolutely everything,
why will I not be able to
make a perfume that is only
specifically for you, why
not?
With which we face the sticks, what
we are the brands, we are giving
the turn absolutely everything
that is our strategy, forgetting
ourselves, not so much of the product
I am the brand, this is my communication
campaign, this is my product that
I offer you, this is my visual
message advertising, but in reverse,
your consumer, what is what
you want me to give you, and you
what is what you want, with which
we will have to work differently
and in a super personalized and
specialized way depending on
the different types
of consumers, with which we
are really working on identifying
different profiles and knowing
why you are buying me,
what you are buying me, what
you are expecting from me,
because in the end that
is also what will make
me the difference with
regard to the rest of
the competition.
So, of course, we need anyway
because you are a person on Mondays,
you are a person on Tuesdays,
you are a person on Wednesday,
and maybe depending on how you
are on Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesday
or Weekends I can work on you,
I can identify what is what you
are looking for, what you are buying
my brand, which is not only
for your use, but also what
is what you are looking for
in the face of others, because
at the end in the world of
perfume there is a very important
part of gift, but depending
on who you want to give, how much
you want to spend, where you
want to buy it, what format
you want to buy, because
the person you are selling
it is a person who is a traveler,
who is a sportsman, etc.
That is why I tell you that it is
a micro segmentation, it is
a micro personalization, that obviously
we have to work from the point
of view of brands and as I told
you, it is no longer coffee for everyone,
it is no longer the same product for
everyone, neither the same advertising
campaigns, neither the same visual
merchandising, nor the same
training, I have to work specifically
for you, for you, and that requires
not only at the level of product
or brand strategy, but even
at the level of the company's
own organization, it obliges you
to reorganize and rethink
and develop in another different
way.